get_in_touch.md, before:

# Get in touch

### News and updates
We post our latest updates on our [Twitter account](https://twitter.com/OpenRtx).

### Community chat
If you need help, you want to ask questions or you just want to join the discussion you can enter in our [Matrix space](https://matrix.to/#/#openrtx:matrix.org).\
You can use Matrix from your browser or your smartphone by using [Element](https://element.io/), or you can choose another Matrix client from the [client list](https://matrix.org/clients): after joining the Matrix space we recommend you to join the channels listed in the space that match your topics of interest.

Alternatively to the Matrix space, you can join our [Discord server](https://discord.gg/jZ9t8XTbmd). The OpenRTX community chat was originally hosted on Discord, and the creation of the Matrix space was dictated by the following reasons:

* Matrix.org is based on Free and Open Source Software and this makes it more aligned to OpenRTX ideals.
* We don't want to force our users to register on a proprietary platform, Matrix allows self-hosting your own *homeserver*.
* We received an explicit request from [our users](https://github.com/OpenRTX/openrtx.github.io/issues/9).

The Discord server and the Matrix space show the same rooms and are bridged together, meaning that, whatever platform you are using, you will see messages from both platforms 
and your messages will reach all the users.

Finally, if don't have a Matrix account nor a Discord one and you want to join our community, we strongly encourage you to choose the Matrix way! :smiley:

Commit message:

Update community information
* Add reference to mastodon on get in touch since that is being used
* Clarify that community chats are on both Discord and Matrix
* Clarify that the community chat bridge isn't guaranteed, and that
  Discord has more activity

Fixes #65

Signed-off-by: Ryan Turner <ryan@turnrye.com>

get_in_touch.md, after:

# Get in touch

### News and updates
We post our latest updates on our [Mastodon](https://mastodon.radio/@openrtx) and [X](https://x.com/OpenRtx) accounts.

For some reason we were not able to understand, the posts on X are visible only after logging in with a valid account; however, contents can be accessed without an account using [Nitter](https://nitter.net/OpenRtx).

### Community chat
If you need help, you want to ask questions or you just want to join the discussion you can enter in our [Matrix space](https://matrix.to/#/#openrtx:matrix.org) or [Discord server](https://discord.gg/jZ9t8XTbmd).

You can use Matrix from your browser or your smartphone by using [Element](https://element.io/), or you can choose another Matrix client from the [client list](https://matrix.org/clients): after joining the Matrix space we recommend you to join the channels listed in the space that match your topics of interest.

Alternatively to the Matrix space, you can join our [Discord server](https://discord.gg/jZ9t8XTbmd). The OpenRTX community chat was originally hosted on Discord, and the creation of the Matrix space was dictated by the following reasons:

* Matrix.org is based on Free and Open Source Software and this makes it more aligned to OpenRTX ideals.
* We don't want to force our users to register on a proprietary platform, Matrix allows self-hosting your own *homeserver*.
* We received an explicit request from [our users](https://github.com/OpenRTX/openrtx.github.io/issues/9).

We try to bridge together the Discord server and the Matrix space, but these things tend to be fragile. As Discord was the original community chat, it is still where most of the discussions take place.

Finally, if don't have a Matrix account nor a Discord one and you want to join our community, we strongly encourage you to choose the Matrix way! :smiley:
