README.md, before:

# The OpenRTX project

OpenRTX is a free and open source firmware for digital ham radios, top-down designed with modularity, flexibility and performance in mind.

Currently OpenRTX is being actively developed for the following radios:

* Tytera MD-380/390 **UHF versions only**
* Tytera MD-UV380/390
* Tytera TYT MD-9600
* Radioddity GD-77
* Baofeng DM-1801

If you want to know how to run OpenRTX on your device, look at the [users' guide](users_guide.md).

Alternatively, if you want to experiment with OpenRTX or just take a peek under the hood, go to the [developers' page](developers_guide.md).

<br>
OpenRTX was created by:

* Niccolò Izzo IU2KIN n@izzo.sh
* Silvano Seva IU2KWO silseva@fastwebnet.it
* Federico Amedeo Izzo IU2NUO federico@izzo.pro
* Frederik Saraci IU2NRO frederik.saraci@gmail.com

All this was made possible by the huge reverse engineering effort of Travis Goodspeed and all the contributors of md380tools.  
A huge thank goes to Roger Clark, and his OpenGD77 which not only inspired this project, but as a precursor, provided a working code example for the GD77 radio family.  
Finally, a warm thank you goes to SP5WWP and the M17 community for bringing their libre protocol into our obscure undocumented hardware.

Commit message:

Mention GitHub repository on landing page

README.md, after:

# The OpenRTX project

OpenRTX is a free and open source firmware for digital ham radios, top-down designed with modularity, flexibility and performance in mind.

Currently OpenRTX is being actively developed for the following radios:

* Tytera MD-380/390 **UHF versions only**
* Tytera MD-UV380/390
* Tytera TYT MD-9600
* Radioddity GD-77
* Baofeng DM-1801

If you want to know how to run OpenRTX on your device, look at the [users' guide](users_guide.md).

if you want to experiment with OpenRTX or just take a peek under the hood, go to the [developers' page](developers_guide.md).

Or if you just want to take a look at the code, go to the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/OpenRTX/OpenRTX).

<br>
OpenRTX was created by:

* Niccolò Izzo IU2KIN n@izzo.sh
* Silvano Seva IU2KWO silseva@fastwebnet.it
* Federico Amedeo Izzo IU2NUO federico@izzo.pro
* Frederik Saraci IU2NRO frederik.saraci@gmail.com

All this was made possible by the huge reverse engineering effort of Travis Goodspeed and all the contributors of md380tools.  
A huge thank goes to Roger Clark, and his OpenGD77 which not only inspired this project, but as a precursor, provided a working code example for the GD77 radio family.  
Finally, a warm thank you goes to SP5WWP and the M17 community for bringing their libre protocol into our obscure undocumented hardware.
