# MD-380
 
## Device models
- Tytera MD-380(V)(G)
- Tytera MD-390(V)(G)
- Retevis RT3

The suffix "V" denotes the VHF version of a MD-380/390, while its absence denotes an UHF one.  
The suffix "G", instead, denotes the presence of a GPS module.

__Model variants__
- With GPS: with JumpStar JS-H210 module on display/keyboard PCB
- Without GPS: no module footprint present on display/keyboard PCB

## Specifications
* Display: 160x128 color TFT
* Frequency range
    * VHF: 136.000-174.000
    * UHF: 400.000-480.000

## Hardware configuration

### Clock tree
* 8MHz crystal as PLL reference
* System clock frequency: 72MHz
* APB1 bus clock frequency: 36MHz
* APB2 bus clock frequency: 72MHz

### GPIO errata
Here are summarised the differences between the GPIO connections reported on the [schematic](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OpenRTX/OpenRTX-external-docs/main/Schematics/MD380_UHF_schematic.pdf) of the MD-380 UHF and their real function, obtained by software and hardware reverse engineering.

### ADC1

### ADC2
ADC2 samples the voltage on PC3 pin (2T/5T signal), data is drained via DMA2_Stream and conversion is triggered by TIM3 trigger output signal, on both rising and falling edges.

### ADC3
ADC2 samples the voltage on PA2 pin (QT_DQT_IN signal), conversion is triggered by software in a function at address 0x0803e45e and data is collected and processed either in the function at address 0x0803eb2a or in the function at address at 0x0803e47e. The function starting the conversion and then processing the acquired sample is called from TIM7 interrupt handler.

### TIM3
TIM3 is configured in compare mode with the trigger output signal sending a positive pulse when the CC1IF flag is to be set (even if it was already high), as soon as a capture or a compare match occurred. Output compare channel 1 is set to toggle mode, its output toggles when TIM3_CNT is equal to TIM3_CCMR1. Prescaler is set to 9 and reload value is 0x2CF (719 decimal). CCMR1 register is set to 0x359 (857 decimal).
Given an APB1 clock frequency of 36MHz, timer tick frequency is 3.6MHz and timer update frequency is 5kHz.

### TIM7
TIM7 is configured with a prescale value of 7 and a reload value of 0x3e7 (999 decimal). Given an APB1 clock frequency of 36MHz, timer tick frequency is 4.5MHz and timer update frequency is 4.5kHz. The interrupt handler is called once per each update and controls CTCSS encoding and decoding.


## Memory mapping
